some experiences weigh on us like a
heavy cross that's almost impossible to
bear they paralyze us with guilt or make
us hide in shame and in other cases they
leave us with an immense amount of pain
for us to process many people either
fight or stick their heads in the sand
and never come to terms with how things
are but there is a way to move forward
and it starts with accepting reality for
what it is which in some cases is an act
of radicalism
[Music]
imagine that someone sticks you with a
knife there are several things you can
do you can ignore it or you can try to
fight it and resist the fact that it
happened but the only thing that
eventually leads to healing is the
acceptance that this event regardless of
its brutality took place I know this is
kind of a harsh example but moving
forward in any situation and also
finding ways to truly process it is done
by acceptance now this doesn't mean that
we condone or approve of anything it
means that we honestly acknowledge
what's going on in our environment and
in ourselves many people often look at
acceptance as a form of giving in they
see it as a weakness but is there
anything we cur than refusing to observe
things how they really are and to
purposefully live in a state of blissful
ignorance simply because we don't want
to be confronted with the harsh reality
it's no surprise that human beings often
engage in the most creative ways of
sugarcoating downplaying ignoring and
denying we push trauma into the shadow
we drink away our pain or even create a
complete web of lies that protect us
from realizing what's truly going on
these are just coping mechanisms in
order to stay away from the ugliness of
truth people get stuck for many years in
some cases for a lifetime because they
refuse to confront what they've been
running from a lifetime of denial can
eat someone from the inside out it
creates cognitive dissonance from
silently sticking one's head in the sand
too violently lashing out as a defense
mechanism when we find ourselves in a
position of pain no matter how
horrendous it is the only way not to get
stuck is acceptance and when the pain is
overwhelming and the reality seems too
heavy to bear then the act of acceptance
becomes radical especially when we've
been lying to ourselves for such a long
time and our minds have become pressure
cookers that are about to explode and
also when the things we accept are in
conflict with our ideas and beliefs
about how life ought to be radical
acceptance means that we acknowledge the
stuff that's excruciatingly ly painful
things like parents
abuse characteristics about ourselves
that we hate the fact that we are
suffering an illness perhaps a lethal
one or crimes that we've committed in
the past and the guilt that comes from
that it's necessary to finally let go
and get past the things we've been
resisting for so long because what we
resist persists and what we accept we
move beyond it's vital to make the stoic
distinction between the things that are
up to us and I think that are not up to
us we can't control the outside world we
can't change the past
we have no certainties about the future
however we do control the position we
take towards life as a certain
Kierkegaard stated life can only be
understood backwards but it must be
lived forward
so what are we going to do are we going
to hide from the truth or fight reality
live in the past or will we muster the
courage to accept the present and
everything in it so we can move forward
and mold the ugliness of this moment
into a better future we cannot change
things for the better when we don't
acknowledge them we won't put bandage on
a wound
if we deny its existence in the first
place and if we live life ignorant ly
based on lies we might try to change a
false reality which is kind of insane
and also counterproductive radical
acceptance is a powerful act it means
that we take a deep breath
stand up straight with our shoulders
back and look the abyss straight in the
eye it sends a message to the outside
world that we are willing to embrace it
and that we don't cower away from the
consequences of doing so that we're
confident that we'll find a way to deal
with it thank you for watching
[Music]
you